Hey there everyone, and welcome
to a fresh new section
on the udemy's Python course.
Now, from this moment onwards,
we are into a position where
so far we have studied about
what are the data types
in the Python programming language.
This means I truly understand
that data can be of variety
of types, it can be numbers,
it can be string, date, time
and probably others as well.
But this is enough of knowledge to
start moving forward in the Python.
From this point onwards we are going
to study about how we can
process this data and in fact
rest of the whole course is all
about processing the data.
In programming world there is a whole
lot of logics that you can apply to
your data and there are a lot of
again, another keywords and style of
processing the data that you have to
go through with Python programming
language, in fact any programming
language.
So from here onwards let's
learn and study about
how we process the data.
And the way we are going to do is
going to be very creative, something
that you haven't seen anywhere,
so far in any Python course.
We are directly jumping into
the mini projects and mini stories.
And yes, these stories
are pretty fun.
They will help you to understand
why we are doing the things,
because doing the things is
easy, why we are doing, why this
particular set of tools were
being chosen to do the
particular activity.
This is what we need right now.
So, so let me walk
you through in this.
You will absolutely love this.
So we're going to start
with the conditionals first.
We are going to study a little bit
about what is conditionals, why this
is conditional, and then we are
going to work on this mini project.
We will have many such mini
projects throughout this entire
chapter and you're going
to absolutely love this.
So just to give you a brief
idea, we're going to go
ahead and work on with this.
So let's just say I have
this small, rectangle.
I'll just go ahead and rotate
this like this because
this is how usually diagrams
are drawn in this one.
So, so let's just say what we
do is we check for some certain
things, maybe a pretty basic
that whether you have, some T
leaves at your home or not.
So we go like this, that we simply
have T leaves at our home or not.
Now based on this, you take decision,
for example, if you have
T leaves at your home.
So this is the route that I'm going
to go ahead and call this.
This is as, simply yes route.
So let me just write this.
This is a yes route.
You have the tea.
If you have the tea I
would say do nothing.
You don't need to buy the teas
or T leaves, so you
don't have to do anything.
But there could be another
route here as well, which could
be something like this.
So if I go ahead and say you have
another route which is a no route,
I don't have T at my home.
So the place logical answer is
go ahead and buy some T or T leaves.
This is the whole point
of conditionals.
You have certain condition.
This condition eventually evaluates
to a yes or no condition.
And based on this we either take
some action or we don't take
some action or sometimes we
take different set of actions.
This instead of do nothing
could also be that, hey, I
don't want to do nothing.
I probably want to say make some T.
So again these decisions are
heavily based on whether the T
leaves at your home, the answer
of this is yes or no.
So you have to work on this.
So we're going to simply say either
buy some T if you don't have them.
If you have them, probably
do nothing or make some T
or maybe check for sugar.
There could be lot of things.
So based on these kinds
of action, now we're going to study
about our simple conditionals.
So we have first set
of challenge and we're going
to take down this challenge.
We are going to build
a program that actually address
this real world problem.
So this is the problem that we have.
You're creating a notification
system for a smart kettle.
All.
Right.
That's a pretty good job.
It should remind the user only when
the kettle has finished boiling.
Task.
Okay.
A variable kettle
boiled equals to true.
If boiled, show kettle done.
Time to make chai.
So this is what we have to do now.
At first it might look really
overwhelming that okay, this is
lot but in real world you will
get these kinds of questions and
these kinds of problems and you
have to convert the problems into
a solution.
And that solution needs
to be delivered via software.
That's what we do.
So let's go ahead and build
this how this can be done.
And we're going to go into
a new file now, new folder rather.
We'll call this one as
03 and conditionals.
It's very hard to speak
and type at the same time.
Let's create a new file and we're
going to call this one as Project
1SO or Ministory1PY so all of this
project are going to be mini
stories and we are going to work
with that.
I'll turn off my AI Companion so that
we just write everything manually.
And this is a good practice when
you're learning programming
in the early days, you shouldn't
be using AI because it will
stop your learning process.
It hinders a lot of.
So let's just see how we can do that.
The process is pretty simple.
The says that hey, you are
creating a notification
system for smart kettle.
Got it.
It should remind the user only when
the kettle has finished boiling.
The task which we have in front
of us is there should be a variable
kettle boiled which should be.
Which can be true or false.
So let's just say how we
declare the variable.
We simply say kettle boiled
and usually or sometimes.
You'll see these as is kettle boiled.
That is also a good variable name.
Make sure you always have
good variable name.
101 of writing Python.
Let's just say this is true.
So now I need to learn how
can I evaluate the condition.
So I can use a special
keyword known as.
If this is a keyword, you cannot
use it for variable name.
This is a special thing.
And then you simply put
up a conditional here.
This needs to be a Boolean data type.
Remember, boolean data type
can only be true and false.
So this needs to evaluate
as true and false this
particular keyword here.
Then you put up a colon and hit enter
and automatically
the indentation comes to you.
Python is very, very lean or very
interested in the indentation part.
Slight wrong Indentation can
give you lot of bad answers
and a lot of errors as well.
Then we simply go ahead and use
print statement and simply
say, hey, we want to have this.
I'll just go ahead and say,
kettle done with an exclamation
and time to make some chai.
That's what was instructed to us.
It says kettle done.
Time to make chai, not some chai.
We have to follow the instructions
and that is it.
That is all the program.
It is.
Now this program will work only
when the kettle is boiling.
So let's go ahead and see
that how it actually works.
I'll go ahead and open up my
integrated terminal within
this folder so that I can
directly run my program
and I'll just go ahead and close all
of these previous ones.
Time to do it again.
All right, looks good.
Now all I have to do is simply say
Python 3 because I'm on a Mac.
If you're on Windows, just say
Python and we're going
to run this program, the one program
that we have, Ministory1Py
and it says kettle done.
Time to make chai.
And if the kettle boiling is
not done, let's just say that
is having a false value.
What does this means?
This simply says hey do nothing.
That's simply just
the example we studied.
Now what you need to understand
here that this whole thing needs
to evaluate either true and
false and just after the is if
this needs to be a condition
which finally evaluates to true
or false, we will have more such
examples and you will absolutely
enjoy it.
So don't worry about that part.
Hope you have enjoyed this.
Exactly like this we
will move forward.
We will have one small story.
We will try to write some
code for the story.
This will make your habit
of writing better program in
the Python and will get you in habit
of solving a problem by making
software small software.
But it's a software.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.